Add first part of my blog post series about accessing Kafka (#58)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2019-04-16-accessing-kafka-part-1.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Accessing Kafka: Part 1 - Introduction"
date: 2019-04-16
author: jakub_scholz
---

Scalability is one of the flagship features of Apache Kafka.
It is achieved by partitioning the data and distributing them across multiple brokers.

> The data sharding has also a big impact on how Kafka clients connect to the brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such data sharding has also a big impact on how Kafka clients connect to the brokers.
```

> This is especially visible when running Kafka inside a platform like Kubernetes but is accessed from outside of the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is especially visible when Kafka is running within a platform like Kubernetes but is accessed from outside of that platform.
```

This blog-series will explain how Kafka and its clients work and how Strimzi deals with it to make it accessible for clients running outside of Kubernetes.

<!--more-->

> It would be of course not sufficient to just shard the data into partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It would, of course, be insufficient to just shard the data into partitions.
```

> Also the ingress and egress data traffic needs to be properly sharded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ingress and egress data traffic also needs to be properly handled.
```

> The clients writing or reading from given partition have to connect directly to the broker which is hosting it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The clients writing to or reading from a given partition have to connect directly to the leader broker which is hosting it.
```

> Thanks to the clients connecting directly to the individual brokers, the brokers don't need to do any forwarding of data between the clients and the partition it self.

Reviewer: The partition is not really a participant in any network exchange, so this doesn't really make sense.

```suggestion
Thanks to the clients connecting directly to the individual brokers, the brokers don't need to do any forwarding of data between the clients and other brokers.
```

That helps to significantly reduce the amount of work the brokers have to do and the amount of traffic flowing around within the cluster.

> The only data traffic between the different brokers is the replication, when the follower replicas are receiving their data from the leader replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only data traffic between the different brokers is due to replication, when the follower brokers are fetching data from the lead broker for a given partition.
```

That makes the data shards independent on each other and that makes Kafka scale so well.

![Clients connecting to partitions]({{ "/assets/2019-04-16-connecting-to-leader.png" }})

But how do the clients know where to connect?

# Kafka's discovery protocol

Kafka has its own discovery protocol.
When a Kafka client is connecting to the Kafka cluster, it first connects to any broker which is member of the cluster and asks it for _metadata_ for one or more topics.
These _metadata_ contain the information about the topics, its partitions and brokers which are responsible for them.
All brokers should have these data for the whole cluster because they are all synced through Zookeeper.
Therefore it doesn't matter to which broker the client connected as first - all of them will give it the same response.

![Connection flow between Kafka client and Kafka cluster]({{ "/assets/2019-04-16-connection-flow.png" }})

Once the client gets the _metadata_, it will use them to figure out where to connect when it wants to write to or read from given partition.

> The broker addresses used in the _metadata_ will be either created by the broker it self based on the hostname of the machine where the broker runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The broker addresses used in the _metadata_ will be either created by the broker itself based on the hostname of the machine where the broker runs.
```

Or it can be configured by the used using the `advertised.listeners` option.
The client will use the address from the _metadata_ to open one or more new connections to the addresses of the brokers which hosts the particular partitions it is interested in.

> And these connection will be used to produce or consume data.

Reviewer: It _might_ be worth mentioning that this can cause the client to make a 2nd connection to the broker it used to bootstrap. It's not necessary for what you're explaining, but it is kinda interesting.

Author: Done

_Note: The description of the Kafka protocol is intentionally simplified for the purpose of this blog post._

# What does it mean for Kafka on Kubernetes

So, what does this mean for running Kafka on Kubernetes?

> If you are familiar with Kubernetes, you probably know that the most common way how to expose some application is using a Kubernetes service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are familiar with Kubernetes, you probably know that the most common way expose some application is using a Kubernetes `Service`.
```

Author: Should we keep the `to` here? E.g. `common way to expose`?

Kubernetes services work as _layer 4_ load-balancers.
They provide a stable DNS address, where the clients can connect.
And they just forward the connections to one of the pods which are backing the service.

This works reasonably well with most stateless applications which just want to connect randomly to one of the backends behind the service.

> But it can get a lot trickier if your application requires some kind of stickiness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it can get a lot trickier if your application requires some kind of stickiness because of some state associated with a particular pod.
```

It can be for example session stickiness - a client needs to connect to the same pod as last time because of some session information which the pod already has.
Or it can be a data stickiness - a client needs to connect to a particular pod because it contains some particular data.

This is also the case with Kafka.

> Kubernetes service can be used for the initial connection only - it will take the client to one of the brokers within the cluster where it can get the metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Kubernetes service can be used for the initial connection only - it will take the client to _one_ of the brokers within the cluster where it can get the metadata.
```

> But the subsequent connections cannot be done through the service because it would route the connection _randomly_ to one of the brokers in the cluster instead of leading it to one particular broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But the subsequent connections cannot be done through that service because it would route the connection _randomly_ to one of the brokers in the cluster instead of leading it to one particular broker.
```

So how does Strimzi deal with this?

> There are two general ways how to deal with this problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two general ways of dealing with this problem:
```

> * Write your own proxy / load balancer which would do more intelligent routing on application layer (layer 7). Such proxy can for example abstract the architecture of the Kafka cluster from the client and pretend that the cluster has just one big broker running everything and just route the traffic to the different brokers in the background. Kubernetes already does this for the HTTP traffic using the Ingress resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Write your own proxy / load balancer which would do more intelligent routing on the application layer (layer 7). Such a proxy could, for example, abstract the architecture of the Kafka cluster from the client and pretend that the cluster has just one big broker running everything and just route the traffic to the different brokers in the background. Kubernetes already does this for the HTTP traffic using the Ingress resource.
```

* Make sure you use the `advertised.listeners` option in the broker configuration in a way which allows the clients to connect directly to the broker.

In Strimzi, we currently support the second option.

## Connecting from inside the same Kubernetes cluster

> Doing this for the clients running inside the same Kubernetes cluster as the Kafka cluster is running is actually quite simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing this for clients running inside the same Kubernetes cluster as the Kafka cluster is actually quite simple.
```

Each pod has its own IP address, which other applications can use to connect directly to it. 
This is normally not used by regular Kubernetes applications.

> One of the reasons is that Kubernetes doesn't offer any nice way how to discover these IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the reasons is that Kubernetes doesn't offer any nice way to discover these IP addresses.
```

To find out the IP address, you would need to use the Kubernetes API, find the right pod and its IP address.
And you would need to have the rights for this.
Instead, Kubernetes use the services with their stable DNS names as the main discovery mechanism.
But with Kafka, this not an issue, because it has its own discovery protocol.
We do not need the clients to figure out the API address from the Kubernetes API.

> We just need to configure it ad the advertised address and the clients will discover it through the Kafka _metadata_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We just need to configure it and the advertised address and the clients will discover it through the Kafka _metadata_.
```

But there is even one better option which is used by Strimzi.

> For StatefulSet - which Strimzi is using to run the Kafka brokers - you can use the Kubernetes headless service to give each of the pods a stable DNS name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For StatefulSets – which Strimzi is using to run the Kafka brokers – you can use the Kubernetes headless service to give each of the pods a stable DNS name.
```

Strimzi is using these DNS names as the advertised addresses for the Kafka brokers.
So with Strimzi:
* The initial connection is done using a regular Kubernetes service to get the _metadata_.

> * The subsequent connections are opened using the DNS names give to the pods by another headless Kubernetes service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The subsequent connections are opened using the DNS names given to the pods by another headless Kubernetes service.
```

The diagram below shows how does it look with an example Kafka cluster named `my-cluster`.

![Accessing Kafka inside the same Kubernetes cluster]({{ "/assets/2019-04-16-inside-kubernetes.png" }})

Both approaches have their own pros and cons.
Using the DNS can sometimes cause problems with cached DNS information.

> When the underlying IP addresses of the pods change for example during rolling updates, the clients connecting to the brokers need to have the latest DNS information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the underlying IP addresses of the pods change, for example during rolling updates, the clients connecting to the brokers need to have the latest DNS information.
```

> However, we found out the using the IP addresses is causing even worse problems, because sometimes Kubernetes re-use them very aggressively and a new pod gets the IP address used just few seconds before by some other Kafka node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we found out that using IP addresses is causes even worse problems, because sometimes Kubernetes re-uses them very aggressively and a new pod gets the IP address used just a few seconds before by some other Kafka node.
```

Author: I guess we should also remove the `is` in `is causes`, right?

## Connecting from the outside

While the access for clients running inside the same Kubernetes cluster was relatively simple, it will get a bit harder from the outside.
While there are some tools for joining the Kubernetes network with the regular network outside of Kubernetes, most Kubernetes clusters run on their own network which is separated from the world outside.
That means that the things such as pod IP addresses or DNS names are not resolvable for any clients running outside the cluster.

> Thanks to that, it is also clear that we will need to use separate Kafka listener for access from inside and outside of the cluster, because the advertised addresses will need to be different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to that, it is also clear that we will need to use a separate Kafka listener for access from inside and outside of the cluster, because the advertised addresses will need to be different.
```

> But Kubernetes and OpenShift have many different ways how to expose applications such as node ports, load-balancers or routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But Kubernetes and OpenShift have many different ways of exposing applications, such as node ports, load-balancers or routes.
```
